Add Apache Airflow Survey 2020 blog post (#385)
apache/airflow-site: landing-pages/site/content/en/blog/airflow-survey-2020/index.md

---
title: "Airflow Survey 2020"
linkTitle: "Airflow Survey 2020"
author: "Tomek Urbaszek"
twitter: "turbaszek"
github: "turbaszek"
linkedin: "tomaszurbaszek"

> description: "AAAAAAAA"

Author: This got to be fixed

Reviewer: Yeah this needs updating

tags: ["community", "survey", "users"]
date: "2020-02-15"
---
# Apache Airflow Survey 2020

World of data processing tools is growing steadily.

> It's important to note that the 2020 survey was still mostly about 1.10.X version of Apache Airflow and
> possibly many of drawbacks was addressed in 2.0 version that was released in December 2020. But if this
> is true, we will learn next year!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to note that the 2020 survey was still mostly about 1.10.X version of Apache Airflow and
possibly many drawbacks were addressed in the 2.0 version that was released in December 2020. But if this
is true, we will learn next year!
```

## Overview of the user

**What best describes your current occupation?**

|                     |   No. |     % |
|---------------------|-------|-------|
| Data Engineer       |   115 | 56.65 |
| Developer           |    28 | 13.79 |
| DevOps              |    17 |  8.37 |
| Solutions Architect |    14 |  6.9  |
| Data Scientist      |    12 |  5.91 |
| Other               |    10 |  4.93 |
| Data Analyst        |     4 |  1.97 |
| Support Engineer    |     3 |  1.48 |

Those results are not a surprise as Airflow is a tool dedicated to data-related tasks. The majority of

> our users are data engineers, scientists or analysts. The 2020 results are similar to those from 2019 with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
our users are data engineers, scientists or analysts. The 2020 results are similar to [those from 2019](https://airflow.apache.org/blog/airflow-survey/) with
```

Adding link to 2019 survey so easier for readers to cross-compare.

visible slight increase in ML use cases.

Additionally, 79% of users uses Airflow on daily basis and 16% interacts with it at least once a week.

**How many people work in your company?**

|        |   No. |     % |
|--------|-------|-------|
| 200+   |   107 | 52.71 |
| 51-200 |    44 | 21.67 |
| 11-50  |    37 | 18.23 |
| 1-10   |    15 |  7.39 |

**How many people in your company use Airflow?**

|       |   No. |     % |
|-------|-------|-------|
| 1-5   |    84 | 41.38 |
| 6-20  |    75 | 36.95 |
| 21-50 |    23 | 11.33 |
| 50+   |    21 | 10.34 |

Airflow is a software that is used and trusted by big companies. We can also see that Airflow can work
fine for teams of different sizes. However, in some cases users may use multiple Airflow instances.

**Are you considering moving to other workflow engines?**

|                               |   No. |     % |
|-------------------------------|-------|-------|
| No, we are happy with Airflow |   174 | 85.71 |
| Yes                           |    29 | 14.29 |

> Nearly 1 out of 7 users is considering migrating to other workflow engine. Their decision is usually

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nearly 1 out of 7 users is considering migrating to other workflow engines. Their decision is usually
```

nit. To be consistent with the header above.

justified by need of **easier workflow writing experience** (12.32%), **better UI/UX** and **faster scheduler**
(8.37% both).

> While the first point may be addressed by (TaskFlow API)[link] in Airflow 2.0 the other two are definitely addressed

Reviewer: Just a reminder to add link to `TaskFlow API`

> While the first point may be addressed by (TaskFlow API)[link] in Airflow 2.0 the other two are definitely addressed

Author: ```suggestion
While the first point may be addressed by (TaskFlow API)[http://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html#taskflow-api] in Airflow 2.0 the other two are definitely addressed
```

> While the first point may be addressed by (TaskFlow API)[http://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html#taskflow-api] in Airflow 2.0 the other two are definitely addressed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the first point may be addressed by [TaskFlow API](http://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts.html#taskflow-api) in Airflow 2.0 the other two are definitely addressed
```

in the new major version. And the early feedback from 2.0 users seems to be confirming it.

> The alternative engines considered by users are mainly Prefect and Argo. Some participants mentioned also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The alternative engines considered by users are mainly Prefect and Argo. Some participants also mentioned
```

Luigi, Kubeflow or custom solutions.

**Are you or your team actively participating in Airflow development - contributing?**

|                 |   No. |     % |
|-----------------|-------|-------|
| I wish we could |    99 | 48.77 |
| No              |    59 | 29.06 |
| Yes             |    45 | 22.17 |

This is really heart-warming result. It means that 1 out of 5 users contributes actively to our project!
But it would be good to learn if there's something else than time that is stopping people who wish to contribute
from doing it. If there are some other obstacles we definitely would like to learn about them so we can improve.

> That said - if you know something we can improve please reach out to use either via slack, dev list or Github

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That said - if you know something we can improve please reach out via Slack, dev list or Github
```

discussions.

**How likely are you to recommend Apache Airflow?**

|               |   No. | 2020 % | 2019 % |
|---------------|-------|--------|--------|
| Very Likely   |   125 | 61.58  | 45.45% |
| Likely        |    62 | 30.54  | 40.26% |
| Neutral       |    11 |  5.42  | 10.71% |
| Unlikely      |     3 |  1.48  | 2.60%  |
| Very unlikely |     2 |  0.99  | 0.97%  |

> Here is a good news! It seems that people are more willing to recommend Apache Airflow than year before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is good news! It seems that people are more willing to recommend Apache Airflow than year before.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Do we also have the counts for 2019? It would be helpful to see the count in comparison to 45% as well as the 125/61.58% comparisson.

Author: Imho the count will be misleading as there was more responses last year, so using % gives us a common base line

| Yes, through SubDAG                |    40 | 19.7  |
| Other                              |    18 |  8.87 |

**How do you integrate with external services?**

|                                             |   No. |     % |
|---------------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Using existing dedicated operators / hooks  |   147 | 72.41 |
| Using Bash / Python operator                |   140 | 68.97 |
| Using own custom operators / hooks          |   138 | 67.98 |
| Other                                       |    12 |  5.91 |

**What external services do you use in your Airflow DAGs?**

|                                                   |   No. |     % |
|---------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Amazon Web Services                               |   121 | 59.61 |
| Internal company systems                          |   113 | 55.67 |
| Google Cloud Platform / Google APIs               |    97 | 47.78 |
| Hadoop / Spark / Flink / Other Apache software    |    72 | 35.47 |
| Microsoft Azure                                   |    21 | 10.34 |
| Other                                             |    19 |  9.36 |

> | I do not use external services in my Airflow DAGs |     5 |  2.46 |

Reviewer 3: These percentage don't add up to 100 - were users allowed to choose more than one option? Adding more detail about the percentage may help folks to make sense of the numbers.

Author: Good point, I will add to question line information about single/multi choice 👌

![](What_external_services_do_you_use_in_your_Airflow_DAGs.png)

**Do you use Airflow Plugins? If yes, what do you use them for?**

|                                        |   No. |     % |
|----------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Adding new operators/sensors and hooks |   119 | 58.62 |
| I don't use Airflow plugins            |    69 | 33.99 |
| Adding AppBuilder views & menu items   |    27 | 13.3  |
| Adding new executors                   |    17 |  8.37 |
| Adding OperatorExtraLinks              |    13 |  6.4  |
| Other

**Do you use Airflow's data lineage feature?**

|                                                            |   No. |     % |
|------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| No, I will use such feature if fully supported in Airflow  |   105 | 51.72 |
| No, data lineage isn’t a concern for my usage.             |    68 | 33.5  |
| Yes, I use another data lineage product                    |    24 | 11.82 |
| Yes, I use custom implementation                           |     5 |  2.46 |
| Yes, I use Airflow's experimental data lineage feature     |     1 |  0.49 |

> When asked what lineage product user use the answers were varying from custom tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When asked what lineage product users use, the answers were varying from custom tools
```

to known product like Amundsen, Atlas or dbt.

## Deployment

> **How many active DAGs do you have in your largest Airflow instance? **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How many active DAGs do you have in your largest Airflow instance?**
```

| Number of DAGs    |   No. |   % |
|-------------------|-------|-----|
| < 20              |    64 |  32 |
| 21-40             |    33 |  16 |
| 41-60             |    13 |   6 |
| 61-100            |    32 |  16 |
| 101-200           |    31 |  15 |
| 201-300           |     8 |   4 |
| 301-999           |    12 |   6 |

> | 1000+             |    10 |   5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1000+             |    10 |   5 |
```

> **What is the maximum number of tasks that you have used in one DAG? **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**What is the maximum number of tasks that you have used in one DAG?**
```

| Number of DAGs   |   No. |   % |
|------------------|-------|-----|
| < 10             |    42 |  21 |
| 11-20            |    31 |  15 |
| 21-30            |    15 |   7 |
| 31-40            |    11 |   5 |
| 41-50            |    22 |  11 |
| 51-100           |    39 |  19 |
| 101-200          |    16 |   8 |
| 201-500          |    16 |   8 |
| 501+             |    11 |   5 |

**Which version of Airflow do you use currently?**

|                 |   No. |     % |
|-----------------|-------|-------|
| 1.10.14         |    55 | 27.09 |
| 2.0.0+          |    45 | 22.17 |
| 1.10.12         |    27 | 13.3  |
| 1.10.10         |    26 | 12.81 |
| 1.10.11         |    14 |  6.9  |
| 1.10.5 or older |    10 |  4.93 |
| 1.10.9          |     8 |  3.94 |
| 1.10.13         |     7 |  3.45 |
| 1.10.6          |     4 |  1.97 |
| 1.10.7          |     4 |  1.97 |
| 1.10.8          |     3 |  1.48 |

This was probably one of the most important questions in the survey. While it's good to see

> that more than 60% of users use one of three latest Airflow version it's worrying that the rest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that more than 60% of users use one of three latest Airflow versions, it's worrying that the rest
```

> This was probably one of the most important questions in the survey. While it's good to see
> that more than 60% of users use one of three latest Airflow version it's worrying that the rest
> is using versions that are old or have known security vulnerabilities.
> 
> Additionally, more than 20% users is already using 2.0.0+ versions which is reasonably good information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was probably one of the most important questions in the survey. While it's good to see
that more than 60% of users use one of three latest Airflow version it's worrying that the rest
are using versions that are old or have known security vulnerabilities.

Additionally, more than 20% of users are already using 2.0.0+ versions which is reasonably good information.
```

|              |   No. |     % |
|--------------|-------|-------|
| Postgres 12  |    36 | 17.73 |
| Postgres 9.6 |    33 | 16.26 |
| Postgres 11  |    31 | 15.27 |
| MySQL 5.7    |    27 | 13.3  |
| MySQL 8.0    |    20 |  9.85 |
| Postgres 10  |    20 |  9.85 |
| Other        |    19 |  9.36 |
| Postgres 13  |    18 |  8.87 |

This means that more about 69% of users decide to use Postgres as their meta-database.
MySQL is the choice of nearly 24% users. The other responses included some MySQL versions
like MariaDB or cloud hosted database like Cloud SQL (used by Google Composer) or AWS Aurora.

It's good to know that users rather avoid using SQLite in production deployments!

**What executor type do you use?**

![](What_executor_type_do_you_use.png)

|            |   No. | 2020% | 2019% |
|------------|-------|-------|-------|
| Celery     |   100 | 49.26 | 44.81%|
| Kubernetes |    48 | 23.65 | 16.88%|
| Local      |    40 | 19.7  | 27.60%|
| Sequential |    10 |  4.93 | 7.14% |
| Other      |     5 |  2.46 | 3.57  |

In comparison to previous year it seems that more users use currently Celery and
Kubernetes executors and LocalExecutor usage dropped by nearly 8 points. This may

> suggest that users' deployment are growing, and they need more scalable solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
suggest that users' deployments are growing, and they need more scalable solutions.
```

Among CeleryExecutor users 78% use Redis as a broker, 19% use RabbitMQ and the rest
is using other brokers or is not sure what is used in their deployments.

> **What metrics do you use to monitor Airflow? **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**What metrics do you use to monitor Airflow?**
```

| External monitoring service   |    60 | 29.56 |
| Information from metadatabase |    51 | 25.12 |
| Statsd                        |    49 | 24.14 |
| Other                         |    31 | 15.27 |

The other responses included mostly information about tools used by users
including DataDog and Prometheus exporter.

**How do you deploy Airflow?**

|                                                                      |   No. |     % |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| On virtual machines (for example using AWS EC2)                      |    64 | 31.53 |
| Using a managed service like Astronomer, Google Composer or AWS MWAA |    35 | 17.24 |
| On Kubernetes (using custom deployments)                             |    29 | 14.29 |
| On premises                                                          |    28 | 13.79 |
| On Kubernetes (using another helm chart)                             |    20 |  9.85 |
| On Kubernetes (using Apache Airflow's helm chart)                    |    17 |  8.37 |
| Other                                                                |    12 |  5.91 |

> Nearly 33% of users deploys Airflow using some kind of Kubernetes deployment. This about

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nearly 33% of users deploys Airflow using some kind of Kubernetes deployment. This is about
```

> 10 percent point more than in 2019. There's slightly increase in usage of Airflow via

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10 percent more than in 2019. There's slightly increase in usage of Airflow via
```

|------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Yes, using helm chart / kubernetes |    58 | 28.57 |
| No, I don’t use containerisation   |    57 | 28.08 |
| Yes, single docker image           |    49 | 24.14 |
| Yes, using docker compose          |    39 | 19.21 |

Among users who do not use Kubernetes based deployments 58% of them use containerisation. About
42% of those users use docker-compose for deployments.

**How do you distribute your DAGs?**

|                                                         |   No. |     % |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Using a synchronizing process (Git sync, GCS fuse, etc) |    79 | 38.92 |
| Bake them into the docker image                         |    56 | 27.59 |
| Shared files system                                     |    34 | 16.75 |
| Other                                                   |    20 |  9.85 |
| I don’t know                                            |    14 |  6.9  |

The most popular way of distributing DAGs seems to be using a synchronizing process. About
40% of users use this process together with Kubernetes deployments.

> ## Future of Airflow

Reviewer 3: Same comment as above about percentages for the categories here

|                                               |   No. |     % |
|-----------------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Yes, as soon as possible                      |    81 | 39.9  |
| Yes, once it’s mature (for example after 2.1) |    72 | 35.47 |
| I am already using Airflow 2.0+               |    39 | 19.21 |
| I don't know yet                              |     8 |  3.94 |
| No, I do not plan to migrate                  |     3 |  1.48 |

**What are the features of Airflow 2.0 you are most excited about? (multiple choice)**

|                                  |   No. |     % |
|----------------------------------|-------|-------|
| General performance improvements |   133 | 65.52 |
| Refreshed WebUI                  |   102 | 50.25 |
| Scheduler HA                     |    99 | 48.77 |
| Official docker image            |    84 | 41.38 |
| @task decorator                  |    56 | 27.59 |
| Official helm chart              |    51 | 25.12 |
| Providers packages               |    41 | 20.2  |
| Configurable XCom backends       |    33 | 16.26 |
| CeleryKubernetesExecutor         |    31 | 15.27 |
| Other                            |    12 |  5.91 |

## Summary

> From open source point of view is good to see that many people would love to contribute to Apache Airflow.
> This means that there are resources that if unleashed may make our community even stronger. From product
> perspective it's important to know that users are usually using the latest versions of our software and
> are willing to upgrade to new ones.
> 
> Finally, there are still some things to improve - documentation, on boarding guides and plug-and-play airflow
> deployments. However, we hope that with the increase of adoption there will be an increase in people willing
> to share their experience and tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From an open-source point of view, it is good to see that many people would love to contribute to Apache Airflow.
This means that there are resources that if unleashed may make our community even stronger. From a product perspective, it is important to know that users are usually using the latest versions of our software and
are willing to upgrade to new ones.

Finally, there are still some things to improve - documentation, onboarding guides and plug-and-play airflow
deployments. However, we hope that with the increase of adoption there will be an increase in people willing
to share their experience and tools.
```
